[//]: # (WARNING: this file is automatically generated. Please find the sources at the bottom and edit those sources)



 named_streets 
===============





Hidden layer with all streets which have a name. Useful to detect addresses






  - This layer is shown at zoomlevel **18** and higher
  - This layer is not visible by default and must be enabled in the filter by the user. 
  - Elements don't have a title set and cannot be toggled nor will they show up in the dashboard. If you import this layer in your theme, override `title` to make this toggleable.
  - This layer is not visible by default and the visibility cannot be toggled, effectively resulting in a fully hidden layer. This can be useful, e.g. to calculate some metatags. If you want to render this layer (e.g. for debugging), enable it by setting the URL-parameter layer-<id>=true
  - Not visible in the layer selection by default. If you want to make this layer toggable, override `name`
  - Not rendered on the map by default. If you want to rendering this on the map, override `mapRenderings`
  - This layer is needed as dependency for layer [address](#address)



## Table of contents

1. [ Themes using this layer ](#-themes-using-this-layer-)
2. [ Basic tags for this layer ](#-basic-tags-for-this-layer-)
3. [ Supported attributes ](#-supported-attributes-)

 Themes using this layer 
-------------------------





  - [grb](https://mapcomplete.org/grb)
  - [uk_addresses](https://mapcomplete.org/uk_addresses)




 Basic tags for this layer 
---------------------------



Elements must match **all** of the following expressions:

0. name~.+
1. highway~.+

[Execute on overpass](http://overpass-turbo.eu/?Q=%5Bout%3Ajson%5D%5Btimeout%3A90%5D%3B%28%20%20%20%20nwr%5B%22name%22%5D%5B%22highway%22%5D%28%7B%7Bbbox%7D%7D%29%3B%0A%29%3Bout%20body%3B%3E%3Bout%20skel%20qt%3B)



 Supported attributes 
----------------------

 

This document is autogenerated from [assets/layers/named_streets/named_streets.json](https://github.com/pietervdvn/MapComplete/blob/develop/assets/layers/named_streets/named_streets.json)
