[//]: # (WARNING: this file is automatically generated. Please find the sources at the bottom and edit those sources)



 Metatags on a changeset 
=========================

 You might encounter the following metatags on a changeset: 

key | value | explanation | source
----- | ------- | ------------- | --------
comment |   | The changeset comment. Will be a fixed string, mentioning the theme  | default
theme |   | The name of the theme that was used to create this change.   | default
source | survey | The contributor had their geolocation enabled while making changes  | default
change_within_{distance} |   | If the contributor enabled their geolocation, this will hint how far away they were from the objects they edited. This gives an indication of proximity and if they truly surveyed or were armchair-mapping  | default
change_over_{distance} |   | If the contributor enabled their geolocation, this will hint how far away they were from the objects they edited. If they were over 5000m away, the might have been armchair-mapping  | default
created_by | MapComplete <version> | The piece of software used to create this changeset; will always start with MapComplete, followed by the version number  | default
locale | en\|nl\|de\|... | The code of the language that the contributor used MapComplete in. Hints what language the user speaks.  | default
host | https://mapcomplete.org/<theme> | The URL that the contributor used to make changes. One can see the used instance with this  | default
imagery |   | The identifier of the used background layer, this will probably be an identifier from the [editor layer index](https://github.com/osmlab/editor-layer-index)  | default
answer |   | Indicates the number of questions that have been answered  | ChangeTag
soft-delete |   | Indicates the number of soft-deleted items  | ChangeTag
add-image |   | Indicates the number of images that have been added in this changeset  | ChangeTag
link-image |   | Indicates the number of images that have been linked in this changeset  | ChangeTag
move | relocated\|improve_accuraccy\|... | Will appear if the  This might give a reason per modified node or way | ChangeLocation
 

This document is autogenerated from [src/Logic/Osm/Changes.ts](https://github.com/pietervdvn/MapComplete/blob/develop/src/Logic/Osm/Changes.ts), [src/Logic/Osm/ChangesetHandler.ts](https://github.com/pietervdvn/MapComplete/blob/develop/src/Logic/Osm/ChangesetHandler.ts)
