[//]: # (WARNING: this file is automatically generated. Please find the sources at the bottom and edit those sources)



 Hotkeys 
=========

 MapComplete supports the following keys: 

Key combination | Action
----------------- | --------
1 | Select the POI which is closest to the map center (crosshair). Only when in keyboard navigation is used
2 | Select the POI which is second closest element to the map center (crosshair). Only when in keyboard navigation is used
3 | Select the POI which is third closest element to the map center (crosshair). Only when in keyboard navigation is used
4 | Select the POI which is the 4th closest element to the map center (crosshair). Only when in keyboard navigation is used
5 | Select the POI which is the 5th closest element to the map center (crosshair). Only when in keyboard navigation is used
6 | Select the POI which is the 6th closest element to the map center (crosshair). Only when in keyboard navigation is used
7 | Select the POI which is the 7th closest element to the map center (crosshair). Only when in keyboard navigation is used
8 | Select the POI which is the 8th closest element to the map center (crosshair). Only when in keyboard navigation is used
B | Opens the background layers panel
Escape | Close the sidebar
F | Open the favourites page
L | Pan the map to the current location or zoom the map to the current location. Requests geopermission
M | Set the background to a map from external sources. Toggles between the two best, available layers
O | Set the background layer to on OpenStreetMap-based map (or disable the background raster layer)
P | Set the background to aerial or satellite imagery. Toggles between the two best, available layers
S | Opens the POI-layers and filter panel
Spacebar | Select the POI which is closest to the map center (crosshair). Only when in keyboard navigation is used
shift+O | Set the background layer to OpenStreetMap-carto
shift+T | Toggle translation mode on or off
 

This document is autogenerated from 
