[//]: # (WARNING: this file is automatically generated. Please find the sources at the bottom and edit those sources)

Special tag renderings
======================

In a tagrendering, some special values are substituted by an advanced UI-element. This allows advanced features and visualizations to be reused by custom themes or even to query third-party API's.

General usage is `{func_name()}`, `{func_name(arg, someotherarg)}` or `{func_name(args):cssStyle}`. Note that you _do not_ need to use quotes around your arguments, the comma is enough to separate them. This also implies you cannot use a comma in your args

#### Table of contents

*   [Using expanded syntax](#using-expanded-syntax)

1.  [questions](#questions)

*   [Example usage of questions](#example-usage-of-questions)

2.  [add\_new\_point](#add_new_point)

*   [Example usage of add\_new\_point](#example-usage-of-add_new_point)

3.  [user\_profile](#user_profile)

*   [Example usage of user\_profile](#example-usage-of-user_profile)

4.  [language\_picker](#language_picker)

*   [Example usage of language\_picker](#example-usage-of-language_picker)

5.  [logout](#logout)

*   [Example usage of logout](#example-usage-of-logout)

6.  [histogram](#histogram)

*   [Example usage of histogram](#example-usage-of-histogram)

7.  [steal](#steal)

*   [Example usage of steal](#example-usage-of-steal)

8.  [minimap](#minimap)

*   [Example usage of minimap](#example-usage-of-minimap)

9.  [split\_button](#split_button)

*   [Example usage of split\_button](#example-usage-of-split_button)

10.  [move\_button](#move_button)

*   [Example usage of move\_button](#example-usage-of-move_button)

11.  [delete\_button](#delete_button)

*   [Example usage of delete\_button](#example-usage-of-delete_button)

12.  [share\_link](#share_link)

*   [Example usage of share\_link](#example-usage-of-share_link)

13.  [export\_as\_gpx](#export_as_gpx)

*   [Example usage of export\_as\_gpx](#example-usage-of-export_as_gpx)

14.  [upload\_to\_osm](#upload_to_osm)

*   [Example usage of upload\_to\_osm](#example-usage-of-upload_to_osm)

15.  [multi\_apply](#multi_apply)

*   [Example usage of multi\_apply](#example-usage-of-multi_apply)

16.  [add\_note\_comment](#add_note_comment)

*   [Example usage of add\_note\_comment](#example-usage-of-add_note_comment)

17.  [open\_note](#open_note)

*   [Example usage of open\_note](#example-usage-of-open_note)

18.  [close\_note](#close_note)

*   [Example usage of close\_note](#example-usage-of-close_note)

19.  [plantnet\_detection](#plantnet_detection)

*   [Example usage of plantnet\_detection](#example-usage-of-plantnet_detection)

20.  [tag\_apply](#tag_apply)

*   [Example usage of tag\_apply](#example-usage-of-tag_apply)

21.  [import\_button](#import_button)

*   [Specifying which tags to copy or add](#specifying-which-tags-to-copy-or-add)
*   [Importing a dataset into OpenStreetMap: requirements](#importing-a-dataset-into-openstreetmap-requirements)
*   [Disabled in unofficial themes](#disabled-in-unofficial-themes)
*   [Example usage of import\_button](#example-usage-of-import_button)

22.  [import\_way\_button](#import_way_button)

*   [Specifying which tags to copy or add](#specifying-which-tags-to-copy-or-add)
*   [Importing a dataset into OpenStreetMap: requirements](#importing-a-dataset-into-openstreetmap-requirements)
*   [Disabled in unofficial themes](#disabled-in-unofficial-themes)
*   [Example usage of import\_way\_button](#example-usage-of-import_way_button)

23.  [conflate\_button](#conflate_button)

*   [Specifying which tags to copy or add](#specifying-which-tags-to-copy-or-add)
*   [Importing a dataset into OpenStreetMap: requirements](#importing-a-dataset-into-openstreetmap-requirements)
*   [Disabled in unofficial themes](#disabled-in-unofficial-themes)
*   [Example usage of conflate\_button](#example-usage-of-conflate_button)

24.  [nearby\_images](#nearby_images)

*   [Example usage of nearby\_images](#example-usage-of-nearby_images)

25.  [wikipedia](#wikipedia)

*   [Example usage of wikipedia](#example-usage-of-wikipedia)

26.  [wikidata\_label](#wikidata_label)

*   [Example usage of wikidata\_label](#example-usage-of-wikidata_label)

27.  [mapillary\_link](#mapillary_link)

*   [Example usage of mapillary\_link](#example-usage-of-mapillary_link)

28.  [language\_chooser](#language_chooser)

*   [Example usage of language\_chooser](#example-usage-of-language_chooser)

29.  [all\_tags](#all_tags)

*   [Example usage of all\_tags](#example-usage-of-all_tags)

30.  [image\_carousel](#image_carousel)

*   [Example usage of image\_carousel](#example-usage-of-image_carousel)

31.  [image\_upload](#image_upload)

*   [Example usage of image\_upload](#example-usage-of-image_upload)

32.  [rating](#rating)

*   [Example usage of rating](#example-usage-of-rating)

33.  [create\_review](#create_review)

*   [Example usage of create\_review](#example-usage-of-create_review)

34.  [list\_reviews](#list_reviews)

*   [Example usage of list\_reviews](#example-usage-of-list_reviews)

35.  [import\_mangrove\_key](#import_mangrove_key)

*   [Example usage of import\_mangrove\_key](#example-usage-of-import_mangrove_key)

36.  [opening\_hours\_table](#opening_hours_table)

*   [Example usage of opening\_hours\_table](#example-usage-of-opening_hours_table)

37.  [opening\_hours\_state](#opening_hours_state)

*   [Example usage of opening\_hours\_state](#example-usage-of-opening_hours_state)

38.  [canonical](#canonical)

*   [Example usage of canonical](#example-usage-of-canonical)

39.  [export\_as\_geojson](#export_as_geojson)

*   [Example usage of export\_as\_geojson](#example-usage-of-export_as_geojson)

40.  [open\_in\_iD](#open_in_id)

*   [Example usage of open\_in\_iD](#example-usage-of-open_in_id)

41.  [open\_in\_josm](#open_in_josm)

*   [Example usage of open\_in\_josm](#example-usage-of-open_in_josm)

42.  [clear\_location\_history](#clear_location_history)

*   [Example usage of clear\_location\_history](#example-usage-of-clear_location_history)

43.  [visualize\_note\_comments](#visualize_note_comments)

*   [Example usage of visualize\_note\_comments](#example-usage-of-visualize_note_comments)

44.  [add\_image\_to\_note](#add_image_to_note)

*   [Example usage of add\_image\_to\_note](#example-usage-of-add_image_to_note)

45.  [title](#title)

*   [Example usage of title](#example-usage-of-title)

46.  [maproulette\_task](#maproulette_task)

*   [Example usage of maproulette\_task](#example-usage-of-maproulette_task)

47.  [maproulette\_set\_status](#maproulette_set_status)

*   [Example usage of maproulette\_set\_status](#example-usage-of-maproulette_set_status)

48.  [statistics](#statistics)

*   [Example usage of statistics](#example-usage-of-statistics)

49.  [send\_email](#send_email)

*   [Example usage of send\_email](#example-usage-of-send_email)

50.  [link](#link)

*   [Example usage of link](#example-usage-of-link)

51.  [multi](#multi)

*   [Example usage of multi](#example-usage-of-multi)

52.  [translated](#translated)

*   [Example usage of translated](#example-usage-of-translated)

53.  [fediverse\_link](#fediverse_link)

*   [Example usage of fediverse\_link](#example-usage-of-fediverse_link)

54.  [braced](#braced)

*   [Example usage of braced](#example-usage-of-braced)

55.  [tags](#tags)

*   [Example usage of tags](#example-usage-of-tags)

56.  [giggity](#giggity)

*   [Example usage of giggity](#example-usage-of-giggity)

57.  [gps\_all\_tags](#gps_all_tags)

*   [Example usage of gps\_all\_tags](#example-usage-of-gps_all_tags)

58.  [favourite\_status](#favourite_status)

*   [Example usage of favourite\_status](#example-usage-of-favourite_status)

59.  [favourite\_icon](#favourite_icon)

*   [Example usage of favourite\_icon](#example-usage-of-favourite_icon)

60.  [direction\_indicator](#direction_indicator)

*   [Example usage of direction\_indicator](#example-usage-of-direction_indicator)

61.  [qr\_code](#qr_code)

*   [Example usage of qr\_code](#example-usage-of-qr_code)

62.  [direction\_absolute](#direction_absolute)

*   [Example usage of direction\_absolute](#example-usage-of-direction_absolute)

63.  [compare\_data](#compare_data)

*   [Example usage of compare\_data](#example-usage-of-compare_data)

64.  [login\_button](#login_button)

*   [Example usage of login\_button](#example-usage-of-login_button)

65.  [linked\_data\_from\_website](#linked_data_from_website)

#### Using expanded syntax

Instead of using `{"render": {"en": "{some_special_visualisation(some_arg, some other really long message, more args)} , "nl": "{some_special_visualisation(some_arg, een boodschap in een andere taal, more args)}}`, one can also write

    {
      "render": {
        "special": {
          "type": "some_special_visualisation",
          "argname": "some_arg",
          "message": {
            "en": "some other really long message",
            "nl": "een boodschap in een andere taal"
          },
          "other_arg_name": "more args"
        },
        "before": {
          "en": "Some text to prefix before the special element (e.g. a title)",
          "nl": "Een tekst om voor het element te zetten (bv. een titel)"
        },
        "after": {
          "en": "Some text to put after the element, e.g. a footer"
        }
      }
    }
    

In other words: use `{ "before": ..., "after": ..., "special": {"type": ..., "argname": ...argvalue...}`. The args are in the `special` block; an argvalue can be a string, a translation or another value. (Refer to class `RewriteSpecial` in case of problems)

### questions

The special element which shows the questions which are unkown. Added by default if not yet there

name

default

description

labels

_undefined_

One or more ';'-separated labels. If these are given, only questions with these labels will be given. Use `unlabeled` for all questions that don't have an explicit label. If none given, all questions will be shown

blacklisted-labels

_undefined_

One or more ';'-separated labels of questions which should _not_ be included

#### Example usage of questions

`{questions(,)}`

### add\_new\_point

An element which allows to add a new point on the 'last\_click'-location. Only makes sense in the layer `last_click`

#### Example usage of add\_new\_point

`{add_new_point()}`

### user\_profile

A component showing information about the currently logged in user (username, profile description, profile picture + link to edit them). Mostly meant to be used in the 'user-settings'

#### Example usage of user\_profile

`{user_profile()}`

### language\_picker

A component to set the language of the user interface

#### Example usage of language\_picker

`{language_picker()}`

### logout

Shows a button where the user can log out

#### Example usage of logout

`{logout()}`

### histogram

Create a histogram for a list of given values, read from the properties.

name

default

description

key

_undefined_

The key to be read and to generate a histogram from

title

_empty string_

This text will be placed above the texts (in the first column of the visulasition)

countHeader

_empty string_

This text will be placed above the bars

colors\*

_undefined_

(Matches all resting arguments - optional) Matches a regex onto a color value, e.g. `3[a-zA-Z+-]*:#33cc33`

#### Example usage of histogram

`{histogram('some_key')}` with properties being \`{some\_key: \["a","b","a","c"\]} to create a histogram

### steal

Shows a tagRendering from a different object as if this was the object itself

name

default

description

featureId

_undefined_

The key of the attribute which contains the id of the feature from which to use the tags

tagRenderingId

_undefined_

The layer-id and tagRenderingId to render. Can be multiple value if ';'-separated (in which case every value must also contain the layerId, e.g. `layerId.tagRendering0; layerId.tagRendering1`). Note: this can cause layer injection

#### Example usage of steal

`{steal(,)}`

### minimap

A small map showing the selected feature.

name

default

description

zoomlevel

18

The (maximum) zoomlevel: the target zoomlevel after fitting the entire feature. The minimap will fit the entire feature, then zoom out to this zoom level. The higher, the more zoomed in with 1 being the entire world and 19 being really close

idKey

id

(Matches all resting arguments) This argument should be the key of a property of the feature. The corresponding value is interpreted as either the id or the a list of ID's. The features with these ID's will be shown on this minimap. (Note: if the key is 'id', list interpration is disabled)

#### Example usage of minimap

`{minimap(18,id)}`

### split\_button

Adds a button which allows to split a way

#### Example usage of split\_button

`{split_button()}`

### move\_button

Adds a button which allows to move the object to another location. The config will be read from the layer config

#### Example usage of move\_button

`{move_button()}`

### delete\_button

Adds a button which allows to delete the object at this location. The config will be read from the layer config

#### Example usage of delete\_button

`{delete_button()}`

### share\_link

Creates a link that (attempts to) open the native 'share'-screen

name

default

description

url

_undefined_

The url to share (default: current URL)

text

_undefined_

The text to show on the button. If none is given, will act as a titleIcon

#### Example usage of share\_link

{share\_link()} to share the current page, {share\_link()} to share the given url

### export\_as\_gpx

Exports the selected feature as GPX-file

#### Example usage of export\_as\_gpx

`{export_as_gpx()}`

### upload\_to\_osm

Uploads the GPS-history as GPX to OpenStreetMap.org; clears the history afterwards. The actual feature is ignored.

#### Example usage of upload\_to\_osm

`{upload_to_osm()}`

### multi\_apply

A button to apply the tagging of this object onto a list of other features. This is an advanced feature for which you'll need calculatedTags

name

default

description

feature\_ids

_undefined_

A JSON-serialized list of IDs of features to apply the tagging on

keys

_undefined_

One key (or multiple keys, seperated by ';') of the attribute that should be copied onto the other features.

text

_undefined_

The text to show on the button

autoapply

_undefined_

A boolean indicating wether this tagging should be applied automatically if the relevant tags on this object are changed. A visual element indicating the multi\_apply is still shown

overwrite

_undefined_

If set to 'true', the tags on the other objects will always be overwritten. The default behaviour will be to only change the tags on other objects if they are either undefined or had the same value before the change

#### Example usage of multi\_apply

{multi\_apply(\_features\_with\_the\_same\_name\_within\_100m, name:etymology:wikidata;name:etymology, Apply etymology information on all nearby objects with the same name)}

### add\_note\_comment

A textfield to add a comment to a node (with the option to close the note).

name

default

description

Id-key

id

The property name where the ID of the note to close can be found

#### Example usage of add\_note\_comment

`{add_note_comment(id)}`

### open\_note

Creates a new map note on the given location. This options is placed in the 'last\_click'-popup automatically if the 'notes'-layer is enabled

#### Example usage of open\_note

`{open_note()}`

### close\_note

Button to close a note. A predifined text can be defined to close the note with. If the note is already closed, will show a small text.

name

default

description

text

_undefined_

Text to show on this button

icon

checkmark.svg

Icon to show

idkey

id

The property name where the ID of the note to close can be found

comment

_undefined_

Text to add onto the note when closing

minZoom

_undefined_

If set, only show the closenote button if zoomed in enough

zoomButton

_undefined_

Text to show if not zoomed in enough

#### Example usage of close\_note

`{close_note(,checkmark.svg,id,,,)}`

### plantnet\_detection

Sends the images linked to the current object to plantnet.org and asks it what plant species is shown on it. The user can then select the correct species; the corresponding wikidata-identifier will then be added to the object (together with `source:species:wikidata=plantnet.org AI`).

name

default

description

image\_key

image,mapillary,image,wikidata,wikimedia\_commons,image,image

The keys given to the images, e.g. if image is given, the first picture URL will be added as image, the second as image:0, the third as image:1, etc... Multiple values are allowed if ';'-separated

#### Example usage of plantnet\_detection

`{plantnet_detection(image,mapillary,image,wikidata,wikimedia_commons,image,image)}`

### tag\_apply

Shows a big button; clicking this button will apply certain tags onto the feature.

The first argument takes a specification of which tags to add. These can either be a tag to add, such as `amenity=fast_food` or can use a substitution, e.g. `addr:housenumber=$number`. This new point will then have the tags `amenity=fast_food` and `addr:housenumber` with the value that was saved in `number` in the original feature.

If a value to substitute is undefined, empty string will be used instead.

This supports multiple values, e.g. `ref=$source:geometry:type/$source:geometry:ref`

Remark that the syntax is slightly different then expected; it uses '$' to note a value to copy, followed by a name (matched with `[a-zA-Z0-9_:]*`). Sadly, delimiting with `{}` as these already mark the boundaries of the special rendering...

Note that these values can be prepare with javascript in the theme by using a [calculatedTag](calculatedTags.md#calculating-tags-with-javascript)

name

default

description

tags\_to\_apply

_undefined_

A specification of the tags to apply. This is either hardcoded in the layer or the `$name` of a property containing the tags to apply. If redirected and the value of the linked property starts with `{`, the other property will be interpreted as a json object

message

_undefined_

The text to show to the contributor

image

_undefined_

An image to show to the contributor on the button

id\_of\_object\_to\_apply\_this\_one

_undefined_

If specified, applies the the tags onto _another_ object. The id will be read from properties\[id\_of\_object\_to\_apply\_this\_one\] of the selected object. The tags are still calculated based on the tags of the _selected_ element

maproulette\_id

_undefined_

If specified, this maproulette-challenge will be closed when the tags are applied. This should be the ID of the task, _not_ the task\_id.

#### Example usage of tag\_apply

`{tag_apply(survey_date=$_now:date, Surveyed today!)}`, \`{tag\_apply(addr:street=$addr:street, Apply the address, apply\_icon.svg, \_closest\_osm\_id)

### import\_button

This button will copy the point from an external dataset into OpenStreetMap

Note that the contributor must zoom to at least zoomlevel 18 to be able to use this functionality. It is only functional in official themes, but can be tested in unoffical themes.

#### Specifying which tags to copy or add

    The argument `tags` of the import button takes a `;`-seperated list of tags to add (or the name of a property which contains a JSON-list of properties).
    

These can either be a tag to add, such as `amenity=fast_food` or can use a substitution, e.g. `addr:housenumber=$number`. This new point will then have the tags `amenity=fast_food` and `addr:housenumber` with the value that was saved in `number` in the original feature.

If a value to substitute is undefined, empty string will be used instead.

This supports multiple values, e.g. `ref=$source:geometry:type/$source:geometry:ref`

Remark that the syntax is slightly different then expected; it uses '$' to note a value to copy, followed by a name (matched with `[a-zA-Z0-9_:]*`). Sadly, delimiting with `{}` as these already mark the boundaries of the special rendering...

Note that these values can be prepare with javascript in the theme by using a [calculatedTag](calculatedTags.md#calculating-tags-with-javascript)

#### Importing a dataset into OpenStreetMap: requirements

If you want to import a dataset, make sure that:

1.  The dataset to import has a suitable license
2.  The community has been informed of the import
3.  All other requirements of the [import guidelines](https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Import/Guidelines) have been followed

There are also some technicalities in your theme to keep in mind:

1.  The new feature will be added and will flow through the program as any other new point as if it came from OSM. This means that there should be a layer which will match the new tags and which will display it.
2.  The original feature from your geojson layer will gain the tag '\_imported=yes'. This should be used to change the appearance or even to hide it (eg by changing the icon size to zero)
3.  There should be a way for the theme to detect previously imported points, even after reloading. A reference number to the original dataset is an excellent way to do this
4.  When importing ways, the theme creator is also responsible of avoiding overlapping ways.

#### Disabled in unofficial themes

The import button can be tested in an unofficial theme by adding `test=true` or `backend=osm-test` as [URL-paramter](URL_Parameters.md). The import button will show up then. If in testmode, you can read the changeset-XML directly in the web console. In the case that MapComplete is pointed to the testing grounds, the edit will be made on [https://master.apis.dev.openstreetmap.org](https://master.apis.dev.openstreetmap.org)

name

default

description

targetLayer

_undefined_

The id of the layer where this point should end up. This is not very strict, it will simply result in checking that this layer is shown preventing possible duplicate elements

tags

_undefined_

The tags to add onto the new object - see specification above. If this is a key (a single word occuring in the properties of the object), the corresponding value is taken and expanded instead

text

Import this data into OpenStreetMap

The text to show on the button

icon

./assets/svg/addSmall.svg

A nice icon to show in the button

snap\_onto\_layers

_undefined_

If a way of the given layer(s) is closeby, will snap the new point onto this way (similar as preset might snap). To show multiple layers to snap onto, use a `;`\-seperated list

max\_snap\_distance

5

The maximum distance that the imported point will be moved to snap onto a way in an already existing layer (in meters). This is previewed to the contributor, similar to the 'add new point'-action of MapComplete

note\_id

_undefined_

If given, this key will be read. The corresponding note on OSM will be closed, stating 'imported'

maproulette\_id

_undefined_

The property name of the maproulette\_id - this is probably `mr_taskId`. If given, the maproulette challenge will be marked as fixed. Only use this if part of a maproulette-layer.

#### Example usage of import\_button

`{import_button(,,Import this data into OpenStreetMap,./assets/svg/addSmall.svg,,5,,)}`

### import\_way\_button

This button will copy the data from an external dataset into OpenStreetMap, copying the geometry and adding it as a 'line'

Note that the contributor must zoom to at least zoomlevel 18 to be able to use this functionality. It is only functional in official themes, but can be tested in unoffical themes.

#### Specifying which tags to copy or add

    The argument `tags` of the import button takes a `;`-seperated list of tags to add (or the name of a property which contains a JSON-list of properties).
    

These can either be a tag to add, such as `amenity=fast_food` or can use a substitution, e.g. `addr:housenumber=$number`. This new point will then have the tags `amenity=fast_food` and `addr:housenumber` with the value that was saved in `number` in the original feature.

If a value to substitute is undefined, empty string will be used instead.

This supports multiple values, e.g. `ref=$source:geometry:type/$source:geometry:ref`

Remark that the syntax is slightly different then expected; it uses '$' to note a value to copy, followed by a name (matched with `[a-zA-Z0-9_:]*`). Sadly, delimiting with `{}` as these already mark the boundaries of the special rendering...

Note that these values can be prepare with javascript in the theme by using a [calculatedTag](calculatedTags.md#calculating-tags-with-javascript)

#### Importing a dataset into OpenStreetMap: requirements

If you want to import a dataset, make sure that:

1.  The dataset to import has a suitable license
2.  The community has been informed of the import
3.  All other requirements of the [import guidelines](https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Import/Guidelines) have been followed

There are also some technicalities in your theme to keep in mind:

1.  The new feature will be added and will flow through the program as any other new point as if it came from OSM. This means that there should be a layer which will match the new tags and which will display it.
2.  The original feature from your geojson layer will gain the tag '\_imported=yes'. This should be used to change the appearance or even to hide it (eg by changing the icon size to zero)
3.  There should be a way for the theme to detect previously imported points, even after reloading. A reference number to the original dataset is an excellent way to do this
4.  When importing ways, the theme creator is also responsible of avoiding overlapping ways.

#### Disabled in unofficial themes

The import button can be tested in an unofficial theme by adding `test=true` or `backend=osm-test` as [URL-paramter](URL_Parameters.md). The import button will show up then. If in testmode, you can read the changeset-XML directly in the web console. In the case that MapComplete is pointed to the testing grounds, the edit will be made on [https://master.apis.dev.openstreetmap.org](https://master.apis.dev.openstreetmap.org)

name

default

description

targetLayer

_undefined_

The id of the layer where this point should end up. This is not very strict, it will simply result in checking that this layer is shown preventing possible duplicate elements

tags

_undefined_

The tags to add onto the new object - see specification above. If this is a key (a single word occuring in the properties of the object), the corresponding value is taken and expanded instead

text

Import this data into OpenStreetMap

The text to show on the button

icon

./assets/svg/addSmall.svg

A nice icon to show in the button

snap\_to\_point\_if

_undefined_

Points with the given tags will be snapped to or moved

max\_snap\_distance

0.05

If the imported object is a LineString or (Multi)Polygon, already existing OSM-points will be reused to construct the geometry of the newly imported way

move\_osm\_point\_if

_undefined_

Moves the OSM-point to the newly imported point if these conditions are met

max\_move\_distance

0.05

If an OSM-point is moved, the maximum amount of meters it is moved. Capped on 20m

snap\_onto\_layers

_undefined_

If no existing nearby point exists, but a line of a specified layer is closeby, snap to this layer instead

snap\_to\_layer\_max\_distance

0.1

Distance to distort the geometry to snap to this layer

#### Example usage of import\_way\_button

`{import_way_button(,,Import this data into OpenStreetMap,./assets/svg/addSmall.svg,,0.05,,0.05,,0.1)}`

### conflate\_button

This button will modify the geometry of an existing OSM way to match the specified geometry. This can conflate OSM-ways with LineStrings and Polygons (only simple polygons with one single ring). An attempt is made to move points with special values to a decent new location (e.g. entrances)

Note that the contributor must zoom to at least zoomlevel 18 to be able to use this functionality. It is only functional in official themes, but can be tested in unoffical themes.

#### Specifying which tags to copy or add

    The argument `tags` of the import button takes a `;`-seperated list of tags to add (or the name of a property which contains a JSON-list of properties).
    

These can either be a tag to add, such as `amenity=fast_food` or can use a substitution, e.g. `addr:housenumber=$number`. This new point will then have the tags `amenity=fast_food` and `addr:housenumber` with the value that was saved in `number` in the original feature.

If a value to substitute is undefined, empty string will be used instead.

This supports multiple values, e.g. `ref=$source:geometry:type/$source:geometry:ref`

Remark that the syntax is slightly different then expected; it uses '$' to note a value to copy, followed by a name (matched with `[a-zA-Z0-9_:]*`). Sadly, delimiting with `{}` as these already mark the boundaries of the special rendering...

Note that these values can be prepare with javascript in the theme by using a [calculatedTag](calculatedTags.md#calculating-tags-with-javascript)

#### Importing a dataset into OpenStreetMap: requirements

If you want to import a dataset, make sure that:

1.  The dataset to import has a suitable license
2.  The community has been informed of the import
3.  All other requirements of the [import guidelines](https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Import/Guidelines) have been followed

There are also some technicalities in your theme to keep in mind:

1.  The new feature will be added and will flow through the program as any other new point as if it came from OSM. This means that there should be a layer which will match the new tags and which will display it.
2.  The original feature from your geojson layer will gain the tag '\_imported=yes'. This should be used to change the appearance or even to hide it (eg by changing the icon size to zero)
3.  There should be a way for the theme to detect previously imported points, even after reloading. A reference number to the original dataset is an excellent way to do this
4.  When importing ways, the theme creator is also responsible of avoiding overlapping ways.

#### Disabled in unofficial themes

The import button can be tested in an unofficial theme by adding `test=true` or `backend=osm-test` as [URL-paramter](URL_Parameters.md). The import button will show up then. If in testmode, you can read the changeset-XML directly in the web console. In the case that MapComplete is pointed to the testing grounds, the edit will be made on [https://master.apis.dev.openstreetmap.org](https://master.apis.dev.openstreetmap.org)

name

default

description

targetLayer

_undefined_

The id of the layer where this point should end up. This is not very strict, it will simply result in checking that this layer is shown preventing possible duplicate elements

tags

_undefined_

The tags to add onto the new object - see specification above. If this is a key (a single word occuring in the properties of the object), the corresponding value is taken and expanded instead

text

Import this data into OpenStreetMap

The text to show on the button

icon

./assets/svg/addSmall.svg

A nice icon to show in the button

way\_to\_conflate

_undefined_

The key, of which the corresponding value is the id of the OSM-way that must be conflated; typically a calculatedTag

#### Example usage of conflate\_button

`{conflate_button(,,Import this data into OpenStreetMap,./assets/svg/addSmall.svg,)}`

### nearby\_images

A component showing nearby images loaded from various online services such as Mapillary. In edit mode and when used on a feature, the user can select an image to add to the feature

name

default

description

mode

closed

Either `open` or `closed`. If `open`, then the image carousel will always be shown

readonly

_undefined_

If 'readonly', will not show the 'link'-button

#### Example usage of nearby\_images

`{nearby_images(closed,)}`

### wikipedia

A box showing the corresponding wikipedia article(s) - based on the **wikidata** tag.

name

default

description

keyToShowWikipediaFor

wikidata;wikipedia

Use the wikidata entry from this key to show the wikipedia article for. Multiple keys can be given (separated by ';'), in which case the first matching value is used

#### Example usage of wikipedia

`{wikipedia()}` is a basic example, `{wikipedia(name:etymology:wikidata)}` to show the wikipedia page of whom the feature was named after. Also remember that these can be styled, e.g. `{wikipedia():max-height: 10rem}` to limit the height

### wikidata\_label

Shows the label of the corresponding wikidata-item

name

default

description

keyToShowWikidataFor

wikidata

Use the wikidata entry from this key to show the label

#### Example usage of wikidata\_label

`{wikidata_label()}` is a basic example, `{wikipedia(name:etymology:wikidata)}` to show the label itself

### mapillary\_link

Adds a button to open mapillary on the specified location

name

default

description

zoom

18

The startzoom of mapillary

#### Example usage of mapillary\_link

`{mapillary_link(18)}`

### language\_chooser

The language element allows to show and pick all known (modern) languages. The key can be set

name

default

description

key

_undefined_

What key to use, e.g. `language`, `tactile_writing:braille:language`, ... If a language is supported, the language code will be appended to this key, resulting in `language:nl=yes` if nl is picked

question

_undefined_

What to ask if no questions are known

render\_list\_item

{language()}

How a single language will be shown in the list of languages. Use `{language}` to indicate the language (which it must contain).

render\_single\_language

_undefined_

What will be shown if the feature only supports a single language

render\_all

{list()}

The full rendering. Use `{list}` to show where the list of languages must come. Optional if mode=single

no\_known\_languages

_undefined_

The text that is shown if no languages are known for this key. If this text is omitted, the languages will be prompted instead

#### Example usage of language\_chooser

`{language_chooser(,,{language()},,{list()},)}`

### all\_tags

Prints all key-value pairs of the object - used for debugging

#### Example usage of all\_tags

`{all_tags()}`

### image\_carousel

Creates an image carousel for the given sources. An attempt will be made to guess what source is used. Supported: Wikidata identifiers, Wikipedia pages, Wikimedia categories, IMGUR (with attribution, direct links)

name

default

description

image\_key

image,mapillary,image,wikidata,wikimedia\_commons,image,image

The keys given to the images, e.g. if image is given, the first picture URL will be added as image, the second as image:0, the third as image:1, etc... Multiple values are allowed if ';'-separated

#### Example usage of image\_carousel

`{image_carousel(image,mapillary,image,wikidata,wikimedia_commons,image,image)}`

### image\_upload

Creates a button where a user can upload an image to IMGUR

name

default

description

image-key

_undefined_

Image tag to add the URL to (or image-tag:0, image-tag:1 when multiple images are added)

label

_undefined_

The text to show on the button

#### Example usage of image\_upload

`{image_upload(,)}`

### rating

Shows stars which represent the avarage rating on mangrove.reviews

name

default

description

subjectKey

name

The key to use to determine the subject. If specified, the subject will be **tags\[subjectKey\]**

fallback

_undefined_

The identifier to use, if _tags\[subjectKey\]_ as specified above is not available. This is effectively a fallback value

#### Example usage of rating

`{rating(name,)}`

### create\_review

Invites the contributor to leave a review. Somewhat small UI-element until interacted

name

default

description

subjectKey

name

The key to use to determine the subject. If specified, the subject will be **tags\[subjectKey\]**

fallback

_undefined_

The identifier to use, if _tags\[subjectKey\]_ as specified above is not available. This is effectively a fallback value

#### Example usage of create\_review

`{create_review(name,)}`

### list\_reviews

Adds an overview of the mangrove-reviews of this object. Mangrove.Reviews needs - in order to identify the reviewed object - a coordinate and a name. By default, the name of the object is given, but this can be overwritten

name

default

description

subjectKey

name

The key to use to determine the subject. If specified, the subject will be **tags\[subjectKey\]**

fallback

_undefined_

The identifier to use, if _tags\[subjectKey\]_ as specified above is not available. This is effectively a fallback value

#### Example usage of list\_reviews

`{reviews()}` for a vanilla review, `{reviews(name, play_forest)}` to review a play forest. If a name is known, the name will be used as identifier, otherwise 'play\_forest' is used

### import\_mangrove\_key

Only makes sense in the usersettings. Allows to import a mangrove public key and to use this to make reviews

name

default

description

text

_undefined_

The text that is shown on the button

#### Example usage of import\_mangrove\_key

`{import_mangrove_key()}`

### opening\_hours\_table

Creates an opening-hours table. Usage: {opening\_hours\_table(opening\_hours)} to create a table of the tag 'opening\_hours'.

name

default

description

key

opening\_hours

The tagkey from which the table is constructed.

prefix

_empty string_

Remove this string from the start of the value before parsing. **Note: use `&LPARENs` to indicate `(` if needed**

postfix

_empty string_

Remove this string from the end of the value before parsing. **Note: use `&RPARENs` to indicate `)` if needed**

#### Example usage of opening\_hours\_table

A normal opening hours table can be invoked with `{opening_hours_table()}`. A table for e.g. conditional access with opening hours can be `{opening_hours_table(access:conditional, no @ &LPARENS, &RPARENS)}`

### opening\_hours\_state

A small element, showing if the POI is currently open and when the next change is

name

default

description

key

opening\_hours

The tagkey from which the opening hours are read.

prefix

_empty string_

Remove this string from the start of the value before parsing. **Note: use `&LPARENs` to indicate `(` if needed**

postfix

_empty string_

Remove this string from the end of the value before parsing. **Note: use `&RPARENs` to indicate `)` if needed**

#### Example usage of opening\_hours\_state

`{opening_hours_state(opening_hours,,)}`

### canonical

Converts a short, canonical value into the long, translated text including the unit. This only works if a `unit` is defined for the corresponding value. The unit specification will be included in the text.

name

default

description

key

_undefined_

The key of the tag to give the canonical text for

#### Example usage of canonical

If the object has `length=42`, then `{canonical(length)}` will be shown as **42 meter** (in english), **42 metre** (in french), ...

### export\_as\_geojson

Exports the selected feature as GeoJson-file

#### Example usage of export\_as\_geojson

`{export_as_geojson()}`

### open\_in\_iD

Opens the current view in the iD-editor

#### Example usage of open\_in\_iD

`{open_in_iD()}`

### open\_in\_josm

Opens the current view in the JOSM-editor

#### Example usage of open\_in\_josm

`{open_in_josm()}`

### clear\_location\_history

A button to remove the travelled track information from the device

#### Example usage of clear\_location\_history

`{clear_location_history()}`

### visualize\_note\_comments

Visualises the comments for notes

name

default

description

commentsKey

comments

The property name of the comments, which should be stringified json

start

0

Drop the first 'start' comments

#### Example usage of visualize\_note\_comments

`{visualize_note_comments(comments,0)}`

### add\_image\_to\_note

Adds an image to a node

name

default

description

Id-key

id

The property name where the ID of the note to close can be found

#### Example usage of add\_image\_to\_note

`{add_image_to_note(id)}`

### title

Shows the title of the popup. Useful for some cases, e.g. 'What is phone number of {title()}?'

#### Example usage of title

`What is the phone number of {title()}`, which might automatically become `What is the phone number of XYZ`.

### maproulette\_task

Fetches the metadata of MapRoulette campaign that this task is part of and shows those details (namely `title`, `description` and `instruction`).

This reads the property `mr_challengeId` to detect the parent campaign.

#### Example usage of maproulette\_task

`{maproulette_task()}`

### maproulette\_set\_status

Change the status of the given MapRoulette task

name

default

description

message

_undefined_

A message to show to the user

image

confirm

Image to show

message\_confirm

_undefined_

What to show when the task is closed, either by the user or was already closed.

status

1

A statuscode to apply when the button is clicked. 1 = `close`, 2 = `false_positive`, 3 = `skip`, 4 = `deleted`, 5 = `already fixed` (on the map, e.g. for duplicates), 6 = `too hard`

maproulette\_id

mr\_taskId

The property name containing the maproulette id

ask\_feedback

_empty string_

If not an empty string, this will be used as question to ask some additional feedback. A text field will be added

#### Example usage of maproulette\_set\_status

The following example sets the status to '2' (false positive)

    {
       "id": "mark_duplicate",
       "render": {
          "special": {
             "type": "maproulette_set_status",
             "message": {
                "en": "Mark as not found or false positive"
             },
             "status": "2",
             "image": "close"
          }
       }
    }
    

### statistics

Show general statistics about the elements currently in view. Intended to use on the `current_view`\-layer

#### Example usage of statistics

`{statistics()}`

### send\_email

Creates a `mailto`\-link where some fields are already set and correctly escaped. The user will be promted to send the email

name

default

description

to

_undefined_

Who to send the email to?

subject

_undefined_

The subject of the email

body

_undefined_

The text in the email

button\_text

_undefined_

The text shown on the button in the UI

#### Example usage of send\_email

`{send_email(,,,)}`

### link

Construct a link. By using the 'special' visualisation notation, translations should be easier

name

default

description

text

_undefined_

Text to be shown

href

_undefined_

The URL to link to. Note that this will be URI-encoded before

class

_undefined_

CSS-classes to add to the element

download

_undefined_

Expects a string which denotes the filename to download the contents of `href` into. If set, this link will act as a download-button.

arialabel

_undefined_

If set, this text will be used as aria-label

#### Example usage of link

`{link(,,,,)}`

### multi

Given an embedded tagRendering (read only) and a key, will read the keyname as a JSON-list. Every element of this list will be considered as tags and rendered with the tagRendering

name

default

description

key

_undefined_

The property to read and to interpret as a list of properties

tagrendering

_undefined_

An entire tagRenderingConfig

classes

_undefined_

CSS-classes to apply on every individual item. Seperated by `space`

#### Example usage of multi

    {
     "render": {
       "special": {
         "type": "multi",
         "key": "_doors_from_building_properties",
         "tagrendering": {
           "en": "The building containing this feature has a <a href='#{id}'>door</a> of width {entrance:width}"
         }
       }
     }
    }
    

### translated

If the given key can be interpreted as a JSON, only show the key containing the current language (or 'en'). This specialRendering is meant to be used by MapComplete studio and is not useful in map themes

name

default

description

key

value

The attribute to interpret as json

#### Example usage of translated

`{translated(value)}`

### fediverse\_link

Converts a fediverse username or link into a clickable link

name

default

description

key

_undefined_

The attribute-name containing the link

#### Example usage of fediverse\_link

`{fediverse_link()}`

### braced

Show a literal text within braces

name

default

description

text

_undefined_

The value to show

#### Example usage of braced

`{braced()}`

### tags

Shows a (json of) tags in a human-readable way + links to the wiki

name

default

description

key

value

The key to look for the tags

#### Example usage of tags

`{tags(value)}`

### giggity

Shows events that are happening based on a Giggity URL

name

default

description

giggityUrl

_undefined_

The URL of the giggity-XML

#### Example usage of giggity

`{giggity()}`

### gps\_all\_tags

Shows the current tags of the GPS-representing object, used for debugging

#### Example usage of gps\_all\_tags

`{gps_all_tags()}`

### favourite\_status

A button that allows a (logged in) contributor to mark a location as a favourite location

#### Example usage of favourite\_status

`{favourite_status()}`

### favourite\_icon

A small button that allows a (logged in) contributor to mark a location as a favourite location, sized to fit a title-icon

#### Example usage of favourite\_icon

`{favourite_icon()}`

### direction\_indicator

Gives a distance indicator and a compass pointing towards the location from your GPS-location. If clicked, centers the map on the object

#### Example usage of direction\_indicator

`{direction_indicator()}`

### qr\_code

Generates a QR-code to share the selected object

#### Example usage of qr\_code

`{qr_code()}`

### direction\_absolute

Converts compass degrees (with 0° being north, 90° being east, ...) into a human readable, translated direction such as 'north', 'northeast'

name

default

description

key

\_direction:centerpoint

The attribute containing the degrees

#### Example usage of direction\_absolute

`{direction_absolute(_direction:centerpoint)}`

### compare\_data

Gives an interactive element which shows a tag comparison between the OSM-object and the upstream object. This allows to copy some or all tags into OSM

name

default

description

url

_undefined_

The attribute containing the url where to fetch more data

host

_undefined_

The domain name(s) where data might be fetched from - this is needed to set the CSP. A domain must include 'https', e.g. '[https://example.com](https://example.com)'. For multiple domains, separate them with ';'. If you don't know the possible domains, use '\*'.

readonly

_undefined_

If 'yes', will not show 'apply'-buttons

#### Example usage of compare\_data

`{compare_data(,,)}`

### login\_button

Show a login button

#### Example usage of login\_button

`{login_button()}`

### linked\_data\_from\_website

Attempts to load (via a proxy) the specified website and parsed ld+json from there. Suitable data will be offered to import into OSM

name default description key website Attempt to load ld+json from the specified URL. This can be in an embedded useProxy yes If 'yes', uses the provided proxy server. This proxy server will scrape HTML and search for a script with `lang='ld+json'`. If `no`, the data will be downloaded and expects a linked-data-json directly host _undefined_ If not using a proxy, define what host the website is allowed to connect to mode _undefined_ If `display`, only show the data in tabular and readonly form, ignoring already existing tags. This is used to explicitly show all the tags. If unset or anything else, allow to apply/import on OSM

#### Example usage of linked\_data\_from\_website

`{linked_data_from_website(website,yes,,)}`

### auto\_apply

A button to run many actions for many features at once. To effectively use this button, you'll need some ingredients:

*   A target layer with features for which an action is defined in a tag rendering. The following special visualisations support an autoAction: tag\_apply, import\_way\_button, conflate\_button
*   A host feature to place the auto-action on. This can be a big outline (such as a city). Another good option for this is the layer
*   [current\_view](./BuiltinLayers.md#current_view)
*   Then, use a calculated tag on the host feature to determine the overlapping object ids
*   At last, add this component

name

default

description

target\_layer

_undefined_

The layer that the target features will reside in

target\_feature\_ids

_undefined_

The key, of which the value contains a list of ids

tag\_rendering\_id

_undefined_

The ID of the tagRendering containing the autoAction. This tagrendering will be calculated. The embedded actions will be executed

text

_undefined_

The text to show on the button

icon

./assets/svg/robot.svg

The icon to show on the button

#### Example usage of auto\_apply

`{auto_apply(,,,,./assets/svg/robot.svg)}`

This document is autogenerated from [src/UI/SpecialVisualizations.ts](https://github.com/pietervdvn/MapComplete/blob/develop/src/UI/SpecialVisualizations.ts)

<
