[//]: # (WARNING: this file is automatically generated. Please find the sources at the bottom and edit those sources)



 Available types for text fields 
=================================



The listed types here trigger a special input element. Use them in `tagrendering.freeform.type` of your tagrendering to activate them


### Table of contents

1. [string](#string)
2. [text](#text)
3. [date](#date)
4. [nat](#nat)
5. [int](#int)
6. [distance](#distance)
7. [direction](#direction)
8. [Input helper](#input-helper)
9. [wikidata](#wikidata)
10. [Helper arguments](#helper-arguments)
11. [Example usage](#example-usage)
12. [pnat](#pnat)
13. [float](#float)
14. [pfloat](#pfloat)
15. [email](#email)
16. [url](#url)
17. [phone](#phone)
18. [opening_hours](#opening_hours)
19. [Helper arguments](#helper-arguments)
20. [Example usage](#example-usage)
21. [color](#color)
22. [image](#image)
23. [simple_tag](#simple_tag)
24. [tag](#tag)
25. [key](#key)
26. [translation](#translation)
27. [icon](#icon)
28. [fediverse](#fediverse)
29. [id](#id)
30. [slope](#slope)
31. [velopark](#velopark)
32. [currency](#currency)

### string 



A simple piece of text



### text 



A longer piece of text. Uses an textArea instead of a textField



### date 



A date with date picker



### nat 



A  whole, positive number or zero



### int 



A whole number, either positive, negative or zero



### distance 



A geographical distance in meters (rounded at two points). Will give an extra minimap with a measurement tool. Arguments: [ zoomlevel, preferredBackgroundMapType (comma separated) ], e.g. `["21", "map,photo"]



### direction 



A geographical direction, in degrees. 0° is north, 90° is east, ... Will return a value between 0 (incl) and 360 (excl).

### Input helper

This element has an input helper showing a map and 'viewport' indicating the direction. By default, this map is zoomed to zoomlevel 17, but this can be changed with the first argument



### wikidata 



A wikidata identifier, e.g. Q42. 

### Helper arguments 

 

name | doc
------ | -----
key | the value of this tag will initialize search (default: name). This can be a ';'-separated list in which case every key will be inspected. The non-null value will be used as search
options | A JSON-object of type `{ removePrefixes: string[], removePostfixes: string[] }`. 

subarg \| doc
-------- \| -----
removePrefixes \| remove these snippets of text from the start of the passed string to search. This is either a list OR a hash of languages to a list. The individual strings are interpreted as case ignoring regexes
removePostfixes \| remove these snippets of text from the end of the passed string to search. This is either a list OR a hash of languages to a list. The individual strings are interpreted as case ignoring regexes.
instanceOf \| A list of Q-identifier which indicates that the search results _must_ be an entity of this type, e.g. [`Q5`](https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Q5) for humans
notInstanceof \| A list of Q-identifiers which indicates that the search results _must not_ be an entity of this type, e.g. [`Q79007`](https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Q79007) to filter away all streets from the search results

 

### Example usage 

 The following is the 'freeform'-part of a layer config which will trigger a search for the wikidata item corresponding with the name of the selected feature. It will also remove '-street', '-square', ... if found at the end of the name

```json
"freeform": {
    "key": "name:etymology:wikidata",
    "type": "wikidata",
    "helperArgs": [
        "name",
        {
            "removePostfixes": {"en": [
                "street",
                "boulevard",
                "path",
                "square",
                "plaza",
            ],
             "nl": ["straat","plein","pad","weg",laan"],
             "fr":["route (de|de la|de l'| de le)"]
             },

            "#": "Remove streets and parks from the search results:"
             "notInstanceOf": ["Q79007","Q22698"]
        }

    ]
}
```

Another example is to search for species and trees:

```json
 "freeform": {
        "key": "species:wikidata",
        "type": "wikidata",
        "helperArgs": [
          "species",
          {
          "instanceOf": [10884, 16521]
        }]
      }
```




### pnat 



A strict positive number



### float 



A decimal number



### pfloat 



A positive decimal number or zero



### email 



An email adress



### url 



The validatedTextField will format URLs to always be valid and have a https://-header (even though the 'https'-part will be hidden from the user. Furthermore, some tracking parameters will be removed



### phone 



A phone number



### opening_hours 



Has extra elements to easily input when a POI is opened. 

### Helper arguments 

 

name | doc
------ | -----
options | A JSON-object of type `{ prefix: string, postfix: string }`.  

subarg \| doc
-------- \| -----
prefix \| Piece of text that will always be added to the front of the generated opening hours. If the OSM-data does not start with this, it will fail to parse.
postfix \| Piece of text that will always be added to the end of the generated opening hours

 

### Example usage 

 To add a conditional (based on time) access restriction:

```

"freeform": {
    "key": "access:conditional",
    "type": "opening_hours",
    "helperArgs": [
        {
          "prefix":"no @ (",
          "postfix":")"
        }
    ]
}
```

*Don't forget to pass the prefix and postfix in the rendering as well*: `{opening_hours_table(opening_hours,yes @ &LPARENS, &RPARENS )`



### color 



Shows a color picker



### image 



Same as the URL-parameter, except that it checks that the URL ends with `.jpg`, `.png` or some other typical image format



### simple_tag 



A simple tag of the format `key=value` where `key` conforms to a normal key `



### tag 



A simple tag of the format `key=value` OR a tagExpression



### key 



Validates a key, mostly that no weird characters are used



### translation 



Makes sure the the string is of format `Record<string, string>` 



### icon 



Makes sure that a valid .svg-path is added



### fediverse 



Validates fediverse addresses and normalizes them into `@username@server`-format



### id 



Checks for valid identifiers for layers, will automatically replace spaces and uppercase



### slope 



Validates that the slope is a valid number.The accompanying input element uses the gyroscope and the compass to determine the correct incline. The sign of the incline will be set automatically. The bearing of the way is compared to the bearing of the compass, as such, the device knows if it is measuring in the forward or backward direction.



### velopark 



A special URL-validator that checks the domain name and rewrites to the correct velopark format.



### currency 



Validates monetary amounts 

This document is autogenerated from [src/UI/InputElement/Validators.ts](https://github.com/pietervdvn/MapComplete/blob/develop/src/UI/InputElement/Validators.ts)
