[//]: # (WARNING: this file is automatically generated. Please find the sources at the bottom and edit those sources)

 URL-parameters and URL-hash 
=============================



## Table of contents

1. [URL-parameters and URL-hash](#url-parameters-and-url-hash)
  - [What is a URL parameter?](#what-is-a-url-parameter)
  - [language](#language)
  - [fs-translation-mode](#fs-translation-mode)
  - [backend](#backend)
  - [fake-user](#fake-user)
  - [fs-userbadge](#fs-userbadge)
  - [fs-search](#fs-search)
  - [fs-background](#fs-background)
  - [fs-filter](#fs-filter)
  - [fs-add-new](#fs-add-new)
  - [fs-welcome-message](#fs-welcome-message)
  - [fs-community-index](#fs-community-index)
  - [fs-iframe-popout](#fs-iframe-popout)
  - [fs-more-quests](#fs-more-quests)
  - [fs-share-screen](#fs-share-screen)
  - [fs-geolocation](#fs-geolocation)
  - [fs-all-questions](#fs-all-questions)
  - [fs-export](#fs-export)
  - [test](#test)
  - [debug](#debug)
  - [overpassUrl](#overpassurl)
  - [overpassTimeout](#overpasstimeout)
  - [overpassMaxZoom](#overpassmaxzoom)
  - [osmApiTileSize](#osmapitilesize)
  - [background](#background)
  - [layer-&lt;layer-id&gt;](#layer-&ltlayer-id&gt;)



This document gives an overview of which URL-parameters can be used to influence MapComplete.



 What is a URL parameter? 
--------------------------



"URL-parameters are extra parts of the URL used to set the state.

For example, if the url is `https://mapcomplete.osm.be/cyclofix?lat=51.0&lon=4.3&z=5&test=true#node/1234`, the URL-parameters are stated in the part between the `?` and the `#`. There are multiple, all separated by `&`, namely: 



  - The url-parameter `lat` is `51.0` in this instance
  - The url-parameter `lon` is `4.3` in this instance
  - The url-parameter `z` is `5` in this instance
  - The url-parameter `test` is `true` in this instance


Finally, the URL-hash is the part after the `#`. It is `node/1234` in this case.



 language 
----------

 The language to display MapComplete in.
The user display language is determined in the following order:

1. Use the language as set by the URL-parameter `language`. This will _disable_ setting the language by the user
2. If the user did log in and did set their language before with MapComplete, use this language. This language selection is synchronized accross devices using the openstreetmap.org user preferences.
3. If the user visited MapComplete before and did change their language manually, this changed language will be saved in local storage. Use the language from local storage
4. Use the navigator-language (if available)
5. Use English

Note that this URL-parameter is not added to the URL-bar by default.
Note that the _loading_ screen will always use the navigator language.

Translations are never complete. If a translation in a certain language is missing, English is used as fallback. No default value set



 fs-translation-mode 
---------------------

 If set, will show a translation button next to every string. The default value is _false_



 backend 
---------

 The OSM backend to use - can be used to redirect mapcomplete to the testing backend when using 'osm-test' The default value is _osm_



 fake-user 
-----------

 If true, 'dryrun' mode is activated and a fake user account is loaded The default value is _false_



 fs-userbadge 
--------------

 Disables/Enables the user information pill (userbadge) at the top left. Disabling this disables logging in and thus disables editing all together, effectively putting MapComplete into read-only mode. The default value is _true_



 fs-search 
-----------

 Disables/Enables the search bar The default value is _true_



 fs-background 
---------------

 Disables/Enables the background layer control The default value is _true_



 fs-filter 
-----------

 Disables/Enables the filter view The default value is _true_



 fs-add-new 
------------

 Disables/Enables the 'add new feature'-popup. (A theme without presets might not have it in the first place) The default value is _true_



 fs-welcome-message 
--------------------

 Disables/enables the help menu or welcome message The default value is _true_



 fs-community-index 
--------------------

 Disables/enables the button to get in touch with the community The default value is _true_



 fs-iframe-popout 
------------------

 Disables/Enables the extraLink button. By default, if in iframe mode and the welcome message is hidden, a popout button to the full mapcomplete instance is shown instead (unless disabled with this switch or another extraLink button is enabled) The default value is _true_



 fs-more-quests 
----------------

 Disables/Enables the 'More Quests'-tab in the welcome message The default value is _true_



 fs-share-screen 
-----------------

 Disables/Enables the 'Share-screen'-tab in the welcome message The default value is _true_



 fs-geolocation 
----------------

 Disables/Enables the geolocation button The default value is _true_



 fs-all-questions 
------------------

 Always show all questions The default value is _false_



 fs-export 
-----------

 Enable the export as GeoJSON and CSV button The default value is _true_



 test 
------

 If true, 'dryrun' mode is activated. The app will behave as normal, except that changes to OSM will be printed onto the console instead of actually uploaded to osm.org The default value is _false_



 debug 
-------

 If true, shows some extra debugging help such as all the available tags on every object The default value is _false_



 overpassUrl 
-------------

 Point mapcomplete to a different overpass-instance. Example: https://overpass-api.de/api/interpreter The default value is _https://overpass-api.de/api/interpreter,https://overpass.kumi.systems/api/interpreter,https://overpass.openstreetmap.ru/cgi/interpreter_



 overpassTimeout 
-----------------

 Set a different timeout (in seconds) for queries in overpass The default value is _30_



 overpassMaxZoom 
-----------------

  point to switch between OSM-api and overpass The default value is _16_



 osmApiTileSize 
----------------

 Tilesize when the OSM-API is used to fetch data within a BBOX The default value is _17_



 background 
------------

 The id of the background layer to start with The default value is _osm_



 layer-&lt;layer-id&gt; 
------------------------

 Wether or not the layer with id <layer-id> is shown The default value is _true_ 

This document is autogenerated from [src/Logic/Web/QueryParameters.ts](https://github.com/pietervdvn/MapComplete/blob/develop/src/Logic/Web/QueryParameters.ts), [src/UI/QueryParameterDocumentation.ts](https://github.com/pietervdvn/MapComplete/blob/develop/src/UI/QueryParameterDocumentation.ts)
